# market-returns
Researchers do not have access to high quality information on US stock market returns. The usual practice is to use the SPY as a proxy. But while the SPY is a roughly good proxy of large-cap US equities, the tracking error of the SPY as a proxy of broad market returns is very high. We estimate that the tracking error of the SPY was 8.934% over the past 30 years. The file called "market_portfolio_SPY_TE.png" is a graph of monthly rolling TE of the SPY as a proxy of market returns; "market_portfolio_vs_SPY.png" is a graph of cumulative returns of the SPY and the market portfolio. As you can see, the TE is very high and SPY returns significantly overstate returns on the market portfolio. Our unconditional estimate for the expected return on the SPY is 9.82% per annum, whereas that for the market portfolio is 8.51% per annum. We recommend that economists and other researchers use market returns instead of the SPY. 

The market portfolio is a monthly-rebalanced portfolio whose target weights are given by stock market capitalization. We rebalance on the last trading day of each month. We compute the market portfolio from market cap and pricing data for 7,404 US stocks over the period from 1992-05-25 to 2022-05-25. This is the broadest possible universe for which reliable market cap and pricing data is available. Monthly market capitalization data was obtained from MSCI and daily adjusted closing prices from Quote Media. 

The data is in commma separated files. The files titled "market_portfolio_FREQ_returns.csv" contain the returns on the market portfolio for FREQ in {"daily", "weekly", "monthly", "qtrly", "annual"}. Daily returns are for NYSE trading days; weekly returns are cumulative end-of-week ("W-FRI") returns; monthly returns are cumulative returns as of the last trading day of the month (NYSE); quarterly returns are cumulative end-of-quarter returns as of the last trading day of the quarter (NYSE); annual returns are cumulative end-of-year returns as of the last trading day of the year (NYSE).


